Interviewer: Welcome to the interview. How are you doing today?

Candidate: I'm good. How are you?

Interviewer: I'm doing pretty well. Um, we're gonna probably just jump right into this interview. I'm just curious, are you familiar with CoderPad? Because that's what we're going to be using throughout. I think it might be easiest to kind of share code.  

Candidate: Yeah, cool.

Interviewer: All right. So we're going to kind of just jump right into the problem. So for the purpose of this problem—and let me share, I just want to make sure you can access this coder link—so I'm going to share this, and I recommend maybe sharing your screen, or I guess we also can just work off of this. So I should be able to see here what you typed in.  

Candidate: I open the chat. I can click on this link and it'll take me to the CoderPad. My name is Kylie and I will enter. And so I can see that you're in this CoderPad as well, and then here I am.

Interviewer: Yeah, and just to make sure that you're comfortable here, you want to just run like a couple simple lines of code? You can try just running this print("hello world") if you want.

Candidate: Yeah, so if I run this, it'll say that I ran a line of Python, it prints out "hello world," so I think it works.

Interviewer: Perfect. Okay, so let's jump into the problem. So just to give you some context, we're going to start with about 20 minutes of design—object-oriented design, however you want to design this code—and then we'll spend probably the last 20 minutes working on more of an algorithms question. So that gives you just a little bit of a scope. You don't necessarily have to accomplish everything; I know that we have limited time. But to kind of give you the context of the problem, imagine that we're designing a book system, so an online cloud reading application. And you can pretty much imagine that we're building a product that is similar to an Amazon Kindle, but specifically for short stories. So we're kind of in our own niche; they might be indie stories, they might not be found anywhere else, people could add their own stories. And basically what we want to do to start this problem off is that we need help designing the actual application. We need help designing the code that could implement an online cloud reading application. And there's a couple things that we're looking for, and this is very open-ended; you can implement this how you want, but a few things—and I'll paste these into the CoderPad that we're looking for. I'll just paste it below. Oh yeah, okay, you can fix this up and I'll delete that top line.  

Candidate: Okay, so a few things that you're looking for: users have a library of books that they can add to or remove from; users can set a book from their library as active; the reading application remembers where a user left off in a given book; and the reading application only displays a page of text at a time in the active book. Exactly, awesome. So let's see—essentially what we want to do is create a library where users can interact with this library. They can look at a book and set it as active, and then this application will also just remember where they left off and display whatever page that they're currently looking at in the active book. Is that correct?  

Interviewer: Correct, correct.

Candidate: Okay. And then more specifically, do you want me to kind of give like a high-level implementation, or how do you want me to start this?

Interviewer: So I really want to just think about, you know, what components would be important. This is, I would say, an object-oriented design question, so I'm just thinking about how you would think about structuring, I guess, the base of a program like this. So obviously we're not going to build this full application, but I'm really curious about how you're structuring that core foundation.  

Candidate: Right. Let me make this smaller over on this end so people can see all this and let's type up some more notes. So the things that jump out to me are that you need to be able to remember all books, so we need to have all books in the library and we need to remember the active book, and then we want to remember the last pages in all books, and then we want to display a page in the active book. Okay, so by this "all books in the library," is that more so—I guess how are we representing these books? Are they just like strings? Do they have a page number and then the string of text? How is that formatted? Is it like HTML?

Interviewer: I think it's up to you how you want to store the books within like this programming structure. You can kind of decide what makes sense for that. I think the important things are the actual text of the book as well as the title of the book. And you can implement the details of like the pages and all of that.

Candidate: Yeah, okay. So I think that there's two things that jump out to me here: it's we want one class representing a book, and then we want another class perhaps representing a library, so a collection of books. And so in this book specifically, you just mentioned that we want the title as well as the pages in the book—or I could rename that the content—and then for the library, we have a collection of books. And then I would also argue that this active book would be at the library level because we just want to toggle which one is active amongst this entire group. And then actually, so this last page in the book, I think I'm gonna put that under the book because it's book-specific. I think it would make sense for every single book to just remember the last page user looked at. Okay, so I like how this is represented. And then I think kind of diving more so into the implementation, I think for the title, a string would make sense here because a title is just a string. The pages and the content in the book—so the things here are the pages are ordered, right? When you go through a book they're ordered and there's a specific amount of content per page. And so I think something that would make sense for this is just a list, because I think a list is ordered, it's a collection of items, and we can't—I mean, I think like a set you would lose the ordering, a dictionary you would lose the ordering and you would also overcomplicate things a little bit. You could have the page numbers as the keys, but then a list would also do the same thing but kind of in a more elegant manner. And then finally—a tuple? Okay, you could also have a tuple but I don't think there's a reason to use like a tuple over a list in this specific example.  

Interviewer: Yep, or vice-versa. Like, I think that you could choose from either one.

Candidate: So I think here I'm just gonna use a list of strings which represent per page, so each string represents whatever's on an entire page. And then the last page that the user looked at, this would just be some integer and this would be an index into this list of strings. So I would have to remember that there might be an off-by-one error here because in Python we start at zero, but naturally when we're reading a book we might start at one. Now for this library, for this collection of books... okay, well so for this active book, you could either use a Boolean where you set one book to active and the rest to inactive, but I think that that would be kind of excessive because every single time we toggle a book as active, we have to toggle everything else as inactive. You can't have two active books.  

Interviewer: Yeah, that makes sense.

Candidate: Okay, so then I think in that case instead what I would rather do is have some sort of a string or some sort of like an ID matching system where we have like one variable that's set to the active book and that might be the title or the ID of a certain book in the library. So maybe we can just add ID here, and maybe I can make that also a string or an integer or something.

Interviewer: Yep.

Candidate: I'm going to add a question mark to kind of just say like maybe we could implement that but I'm not sure if we'd want to right now. So this would correspond to ID. This would just be some variable. And then this collection of books—so I guess like when we display this page in an active book, I actually think that this might have an advantage being like some sort of a lookup table because we have a certain sense of an ID, right? And I think what could make sense here is having the ID correspond to the book object that we define up here. So this could be a book object. And so we don't really need this ID—I think that if all the titles are unique then we don't need this ID, we can just use the titles as the IDs. But in some cases in the real world not all titles are unique, and so that's what an ID might come in handy. And so I'll leave that—what are our assumptions here? Can we assume that the titles are unique or should I be using this ID structure?  

Interviewer: I think I like the ID structure because yeah, we're not necessarily going to know that everything's unique, so I think this is a little bit more robust.

Candidate: Okay, awesome. So I think this representation looks good to me. I'm just going to go through the requirements again just to make sure that I've covered all my bases. So here I want all books... okay, so I want a library of books that I can add to or remove from, and so here I have a library and anytime I want to add to this library I can just add an ID, I can add the book. If I want to remove from the library then I can just simply delete the key-value pair. I can set a book from their library as active, and so here I have this active book and we could always say like if there is no active book then we set this to None or something like that. The reading application remembers where a user left off, so we have that here, right? The last page that the user looked at, and not just in the active book. And then displaying one page of text at a time in the active book. So we have the active book, we can get the book object from that, and then we can go to the page that the user last looked at by indexing this value into this list. So I think we've covered all the bases here.  

Interviewer: Cool. Let's do a couple things. I guess as a starting point, and this doesn't have to get too crazy, but I would love to just see some Python pseudo-code or even some Python code just to maybe flesh out one of these classes. I just want to look at that a little bit and how you would actually start writing this code.

Candidate: Yeah, sure. So for example here, let's start with the book. And when we define a class, let's initialize this. So when we initialize a book, we definitely should pass in the title and then the content. I'm assuming that when we add a book these things have to be given to us. And then I'm assuming that when we add a book we don't have a last page that the user has looked at. Is that an okay assumption?

Interviewer: Yeah, I like that assumption.

Candidate: Okay, so we can set the title of this book just equal to whatever the title is. The content of this book—and I'm going to assume that these are given to us in the formatting that we want, so the title is a string and the content is a list of strings that correspond to the pages. And I'm gonna create a variable last_page and I'm going to set that equal to just zero. I could also probably set it equal to negative one or something, but I think zero makes sense because that would be the beginning, right?  

Interviewer: Yep.

Candidate: And then we need to come up with some sort of an ID. So typically maybe we would have some sort of function that takes in the title and the content or maybe the author or something and returns a unique ID, but I think maybe something that we can do here just very simply is have some sort of counter in the library and then every single time we add a new book we can just associate that counter with that book, and so then we know that they're all unique and they all have their own IDs. Would that make sense?

Interviewer: Yeah, that makes sense.

Candidate: Okay, so then I would have to pass in the ID. Yeah, and so what I'm actually going to do is self.id = ID. And then for example we might want like a display_page in this book, and so for that then we just want to return whatever is at the last page of the content.

Interviewer: And I guess let's build on this a little bit. Another useful function—obviously you want to start at the last page, but let's say we're starting to turn the page. What might that look like?

Candidate: Right. And so if we're turning the page, then all we want to do is increment the last_page, right? And so we might do self.last_page += 1. And then we could call display_page after that if we assume that these two go together. So if we assume that when we turn the page we want to display that page, then I would just return self.display_page(). Like that. And then actually I'm just going to go ahead and code up this Library as well. So this Library, we have this collection of books and then also the active book. So rather than initializing a library with books, I think let's just add them to this. So initially this collection might just be an empty dictionary and then the active book might be None. So then when we want to add stuff—add to collection—a book. What I'm going to do—so either the user could like, or our API could like return a book with the title and the content etc., but since we're—we said that we would pass the ID through the library because we might have like a counter, like some sort of ID counter. I mean, this is not the best way to do it but I think this is a fine hack for right now just to make all the IDs unique. What we can do here is when we want to add a book, just pass in the title and the content, and so then our new book is going to be a Book as we've defined above with the ID and the title and the content. And then after we create this new book we want to increment the ID counter, and then we also want to add this new book into the collection. So I'm going to add self.collection. And I'm going to make the ID whatever the ID of the book is—actually I'm just going to call new_book.id because I think that's a bit cleaner—and this is going to be the new book, and then we increment the counter by one. So this is us adding to the collection. Of course we want to remove from the collection, and so we want—we said that we wanted to remove based on the ID. All we have to do is—I think there's this del in Python, I'm not sure...  

Interviewer: Yeah, I understand what you're trying to do. The exact details are not super, super important to me.

Candidate: Okay, yeah. So anyways this is removing from the collection. And when we set active_book, again we want to do this based on the ID, so I'm going to make self.active_book equal to whatever that ID is. And let's see—the user has a library of books they can add or remove from, we did that; setting a book as active, okay; and then remembering where user left off—so we've actually taken care of that already implicitly in our Book class; and then the reading application only displays a page of text at a time. All right, so then here we can say def display_page(), and actually we don't even need the ID of the book because we already have the active_book ID, right? And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to go into my collection and I'm gonna get the active book like this and I'm going to do .display_page(). And then of course we also have this turn_page that I could code up as well. Yep, so you get the idea. So we wanted to turn that page. I do think that some drawbacks here are that—okay, so one thing that we could have done is instead of this active book, instead of saving the ID we could have saved the book itself, and I think from a Pythonic standpoint that might make sense. But then in the future if we're using some sort of database or something, an ID would make more sense because that's easier to store in a table. And if—and okay also for this display_page, you might see that we've called this display_page and turn_page up here in the Book and the reason why I did that rather than just call like self.book.content[last_page] or something was because I think that, for example, this should be independent of how we implement the book. So we want to keep those as separate blocks as possible. And so here what this allows me to do is when I go back to my book, if I decide to scrap this implementation and implement something else, I know that I would just have to implement the methods display_page and turn_page for that to work. And like, these functions should work.  

Interviewer: This looks good to me. I like the start. I think that this definitely lays out the foundation of what I was looking for with the requirements of this application. So, nice work with this. Couple quick follow-up questions before we kind of branch into more of an algorithms-type question. One question is, you know, let's say you have an older reader and their vision isn't as great so they need to make the size of the font bigger. So kind of keeping that in mind that you might have this variable font size, how might you I guess refactor or change or modify your current structure—and you don't have to actually write code here, let's just discuss this—to account for that increase in size?  

Candidate: Yeah. So when we increase something in size—I'm just thinking about intuitively on our phone screens or something—that tends to shift the content, right? So some page that might hold a hundred words at a small font size might only hold fifty when you double that font size. So for the book, instead of having this list, what I might do is I might just save the entire book as a string and based—so I would—let me just edit this in here because I think it's easier to visualize what I'm saying—but so I might have like a font_size equal to, I guess we could just use like the traditional 12.5 or whatever. But when we have this font size, we could come up with some sort of characters-per-page calculation, right? And so that would be based off the font size. So, "calculate based on that font size." And I'm commenting it out so it doesn't have any errors. But then when we do calculate that, then what we can do in order to get our display page thing would be instead of indexing into this content (which is now just a long string of characters), what we can do here is we can return—we would have to do some sort of calculation, right? So we would need to—we have this "characters per page" and we can multiply that by whatever the last page is. And so this would give us kind of the starting index of this long string of characters to start the content of that page. start_index would be this, and then what we would want to do is then return the self.content from that start_index until the start_index plus the number of characters on that page. So that would be our end_index. So actually let me just write that out to make things a little bit more clear. So now essentially what I've done is we have this variable font_size which we can calculate characters per page depending on that font size—so that might be more characters or less characters depending on how big the font size is—and then our content instead of a list of strings is now just a really long string of characters. And I guess some assumptions that I'm making here are that this would just be approximate; so for example if we had a \n which is like a line break, that might just end up counting as a character or two characters. But the assumption is that that would be approximate per page or maybe that we're using some sort of like monospaced font or something like that. But essentially now that we have the characters per page and then just a long stream of characters that represents the content, we can index into that content based on the last page that we know. And so what's really cool here is that when we do turn the page, we can just end up calling this. So this is kind of that granularity that I was talking about.  

Interviewer: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense to me, and definitely you see the advantage of having that function that you can change by having to implement something different. One last quick follow-up and then we'll move on to the algorithms portion of this interview. I'm just trying to think, you know, at a high level, let's say that we had multiple users in this system and they all shared books—so like, you know, they might all share the Harry Potter books or something like that. Books are common among all of them. How might you modify this, given that some of these qualities of a book might be shared between users because they're all trying to access that same book? Does that make sense?

Candidate: Yeah, for sure. So I think that when we start to have multiple people involved, these books might get stored somewhere, for example in like a SQL table, right? And so then when that happens, we would still want to maybe store the ID, the title, the content in that table. Now the only changes would be that these sort of customizations are per user, but the book and the content—those are for this entire group of people. And what we can do, I think, is instead of this ID counter being library-specific, we can start identifying books by their IDs on a more global scale, right? And so, you know, this was kind of just a hack to make this ID thing work and be unique. But for example when you put something into a SQL table you can also have an ID associated with those entries. And so maybe when we add to the collection, if we see that the title and the content is already in the table, then we instead just return the book that's already in that table or something like that.  

Interviewer: Yeah, okay. I think that makes sense to me. Cool, I'm happy with this discussion. I think that we can move on to the second portion. I guess do you have any last questions on this before I move on, or last things you want to say?

Candidate: Um, yeah, so no last questions. I think that the last thing I want to say is also it would really depend on like how you implement this group of people, right? Like my immediate thought was like a SQL table, but that doesn't have to be the only way. So yeah, I think it would depend on that.

Interviewer: All right, awesome. Let's switch gears. I'm probably going to just comment this out in case you do want to run some code and there's any errors or issues in this. So I'm just going to comment this out, but I'm going to leave it here just so we have it to look back at. And I'm going to just indent this a bunch and we're going to just start at the top of the screen, so don't mind all the stuff at the bottom. All right, so another important component of our book reading system—and this is completely independent, you don't have to reference any of your past code—is I mentioned this is for short stories and you could have independent indie authors adding these short stories. So they're not going to be, you know, the classics, not going to be those types of titles; they're probably smaller authors. One thing that we want to avoid in this system is plagiarism. So my task for you is to design an algorithm that would be able to detect the two most likely books that would have plagiarism in them. Like, the two most likely books that pop up as a match for potential plagiarism in a library. And we can define "most likely" as meaning they have the longest shared common section of text. So we're looking—we have a library of books and we're looking for the two that have the longest shared common section of text. And we specifically might want to know how many characters that section of text is. You can imagine if it's sharing a single word obviously not an issue, but if it's sharing six paragraphs that's going to be a problem. Does that make sense?  

Candidate: Right. So just to clarify some things, what Keith really means here by substring—oops—is that for example if I have a string such as "learn"... what are substrings of this? Well one possible substring is "learn," another possible is "earn" because these are strings that are using characters that belong to this string "learning." Another possible one is "earning." Now you might say, "Okay Kylie, all of these are consecutive in terms of the characters." So here all of these correspond as characters that are next to each other. But in this specific example, Keith is not actually asking, "Okay, it has to be a consecutive substring." Instead what Keith is asking is just any substring, which means that as long as the letters are in the correct sequence, you can skip characters if you want to. So for example here "leg" would actually also be a substring. Or "an." So for example right here we have "earn" as a substring of consecutive characters, but down here I could rewrite it as a substring where there's actually a gap of two characters in the middle, but this would still be a valid substring. So it doesn't have to be consecutive; we just need all the characters to be in order from left to right. Let's see... let's start off with kind of a naive solution for that. Well, one thing that you could do is literally come up with every single combination of like substrings for both of these and then compare those and see which two substrings are the longest, right? But there's a lot of different combinations for substrings, and so I think that we should come up with a more elegant solution. Let's see... so one thing that I'm thinking is we should have pointers that start at the beginning of both strings and kind of move along until one of them detects a shared character. So here, actually, like I would say the first shared character is 'H', right? And so here we would have the two pointers kind of be this... maybe I'll go from the bottom but here and here. And so we look at the next character and we realize okay, they're not the same. So then we want to keep going. But one downside of this is that, well okay, what if I want to start comparing from here and here? Okay, and then I move it over and like these two have two shared characters. So I think that there's still this question of there's a lot of different combinations here.  

Interviewer: I think you're on the right track though. I like this.

Candidate: Yeah. So I know that here I want kind of these pointers that are moving and then I just want to be able to align them, right? I think that's the key here is this alignment. And so now I think we just have to figure out how to make that alignment work. I'm kind of thinking like—one thing that we could do is kind of have more of a base sentence and then one where—when we have like—so for example if I made this my base sentence, then in the other sentence I would want to search this sentence for each character. So if I have the 'I' here then my first 'I' would start looking from here and then maybe I would start to look from here, right? But I think that that would end up also being kind of long because for every single character in here you would have to iterate through this entire thing and do the whole matching process. And so—does that make sense why that's maybe not the most optimal?  

Interviewer: Yeah, that makes sense. And I guess what would be the runtime of that?

Candidate: It would be O(NM) because well, I guess if we have one sentence O(N) and one sentence O(M), it would be O(NM) because for every single character we'd have to run through the other string M times. And actually okay, so like if my base sentence is something like this, and then you're searching... the worst case example would be like something like this, right? Where like if I have an 'I', okay well I have to go through each of these. And so yeah, I guess we would have to go through until they don't match anymore but then that would just be the very end of this. So maybe I can add like an 'a' at the end of that. So then I would actually—okay so that I would say it would—it might be O(N^2 * M) where N is...  

Interviewer: Yeah, I think that makes sense to me. I think that we should come up with a different solution.

Candidate: I'm trying to think of how dynamic programming would work because I do think that this might be a dynamic programming problem. I'm not sure of how to formulate it.

Interviewer: Yes, let's—I think that you're onto something here. I think—I'm trying to think of a good way to kind of kick you off here. I mean, I would say let's just lay out—let's assume that this is dynamic programming. I think as a good starting point maybe we can talk about sub-problems here and try to define that, and maybe that will help us get to our solution. Or also maybe just define a base case and maybe that will help us get to the solution. So I think let's assume that dynamic programming can be used here. Let's maybe just start trying to figure out sub-problems and maybe a base case.  

Candidate: Yeah. So I definitely think that the base case would be pretty simple and it would just be if there is a match, right? Between the two? Like if the two sentences equal one another—that would be—or okay let's think about all the possible base cases. So it'd be if there's a match, or maybe we've iterated through everything that we can and we're comparing like an empty string to non-empty, or even empty to empty, which is when we would know that we're at the very end, right?

Interviewer: Yeah.

Candidate: So for example with this match, I mean by like "read" to "read"—like that would be an exact match. So I think the difficulty of this problem is that we can start anywhere in the texts. And I guess if we were trying to recurse through this, or if we were trying to go through this with dynamic programming, what I would kind of want to do is say okay, either like 'S' is the start of some substring in this sentence or it's not, right? And if it's not, then we want to move over and we want to say okay well then is 'H' the start of a substring from this other sentence or it's not? And we want to kind of continue that process. And so if, for example, 'H' is a substring, then we would want to figure out what the longest matching one is, and then that would essentially like skip us over a few blocks. And so I think another way to kind of formulate this might actually be like how many characters can kind of almost subtract from the two?

Interviewer: I might jump in here just—I think you're on the right track but I might provide a little bit maybe more of a launching point just because I want to be considerate of our time here. I think you're on the right track. I think that let's maybe try to define this like with a single-line expression, like a single-line recurrence type expression. Because I think that if we can build up sub-problems to that final state, that will help us. So let's say we have sections of text A, and I'll put this in... where A is one of our sections of text and B is another one of our sections of text. And basically that could be "hello world" or something, you know, and just "world" or something like that. We can assume that basically what we could start doing here is we can imagine that we wanted to find the longest match between A and B. And you could define that as from character index 0 to character index 0 here. So like the longest common substring of A, B (0,0) would be our kind of goal state, because we would want to find—if we're working backwards let's say we want to find all the way to the beginning. But to help us get there, you know, we could probably see if—what is the longest substring at different indexes? So if, you know, maybe index 3, index 5... so like this would be the I guess last character, 5 would be like the last character of B. And I guess keeping this in mind, can we define this in such a way where we maybe we can define an equation that would help us work up to that final goal which would be the entire sequence?  

Candidate: Okay, so if we're using kind of these A, B strings as example... let's define some like find_largest_substring or something, and we might have string A, string B, right? And you're saying, "Okay, let's do index A and index B as well and start those off with zero." That would be our recurrence relation. And so I guess what we'd want to do is find the longest substring between these, and we want to increment one or the other, right? So like that. Or if string_a[idx_a] == string_b[idx_b], then what we'd want to do is find the longest substring and we want to increment both of these indices. Apparently—oops, sorry—I meant string A at index A and string B at index B like this. So then we'd want to increment both of the indices and we want to add one, right? Because this means that we've found a starting match. And what we'd want to do is actually take the—so here—and if you want to just write pseudo-code here it's fine too for me.  

Interviewer: Possibility... okay that makes sense to me.

Candidate: Yeah, so let's just do all these possibilities. And so then if the two—then we have this third possibility, right? And what I would want to do is take kind of the... why is this giving me an error? Oh. So then I would want—I would want to return the max of possibility one, possibility two. Okay let's write pseudo-code. Possibility one, possibility two, and then possibility three only if it makes sense to me—if applicable. And then with our base case, we said that it would be if one of them is at the end. So let me add that in here. So maybe like if idx_a == len(string_a) then we want to return zero, or here, or idx_b == len(string_b). Yeah, so then for our longest substring this makes sense now because with each index we have the possibility of shifting it over one and trying to compare this sentence with this entire one, or shifting the other one over one, comparing those two indices or those two substrings from there on. Or if they are a match, then we also have the third option of moving both of them over. So actually I should go from here, and then because this find_longest_substring repeats all that on the next character for those two, then we repeat that process again and we add one every single time to that. So I think logically this makes sense now. One thing might also be that we start to kind of recurse a lot on the same indices, right? Because we're trying all these different combinations. And if we move them both over by one then we kind of are iterating through them a lot. So I think that one thing that we could also do is implement some sort of memoization. So here, like—hold on, I lost the—oh here we go. Okay, so then like if the memoization is None then we might want to start this with some sort of—it could be a dictionary. I think that also what could make sense is like a list of lists, right? So like maybe negative one because there's no such thing as a negative one-length substring. And I'm gonna multiply that by the length of like string A for example, and then this whole thing by the length of string B. And so essentially I have this table... I always get confused with the direction of these things but I understand the goal of this.

Interviewer: len(string_a) and len(string_b). Basically create a table that stores some of these values.

Candidate: Yeah exactly, yeah. And then in order to store that here, then we would want to create like the index A, index B—these might be backwards but we would want to store that essentially. And so then we'd want to add a case of like if this memo at index A, index B—these might be backwards again—if that's not negative one, then that means that we've already found the answer, so then we just want to return whatever is memoized there. And so at the very end we'd want to just return memo, like that. And let me just think about these indices quickly... so the first one is string B—so actually if I just swap these two that should make it work because first we'd index into A and then we'd index into B. So yeah, if I just swap those two that would work.

Interviewer: Cool. This makes sense to me. I guess my last question—I think that this is the approach that I was kind of thinking about as far as dynamic programming goes. My last question is: what would be the runtime of this memoized dynamic programming solution?

Candidate: Okay, so here we are going through all of index A—all string A—and all of string B, right? By incrementing these indices until we hit a base case. So there's no way to avoid going through both of them and incrementing one but not the other. And so we essentially have to fill out this entire memoization table in order to figure out our answer, right? Which means that it would be O(N*M).

Interviewer: Yep, which would be a benefit. And then my last question, I know we're running right up on time, is I guess given the context of the original problem was you might have a library of books, how would you leverage this find_longest_substring to, I guess, find the two most—like the highest probability matches in the entire library of books?

Candidate: I think that so here now that we have this find_longest_substring with string A, string B, and we have all—so let's suppose that we changed the implementation of this book to be this long string of characters for the content. Then that means that what we can do for this find_longest_substring is just pass in like book_a.content and book_b.content and figure out the longest substring between the two of them. And we can do that for all the combinations of books—unique combinations of books. And if we find—for example... okay, well so the prompt is to detect the two most likely books that have plagiarism, so we would just return the two books with the longest substring. But you know, maybe we want to say like any books where more than 30%—you know, more than 30% of the book or maybe even like 10%—shares the same substring, and we might call that plagiarism.  

Interviewer: That's all I have. Thank you for your time. I guess quickly if you have any questions I guess for me or any questions about these prompts before I head off?

Candidate: Yeah, so no last questions. I think that in a normal interview this would be a time when I would dive deeper and ask questions about your work or what you enjoy about the company. And if I find something in one of your answers that I'm really interested in I'll dive into that a little bit more. But because this is just a fake interview and I don't really have any questions about your company because the company doesn't exist...

Interviewer: Yep, that makes sense to me and I did not give you any context really to work with here so we don't have to repeat what we did with the video that posted on my channel. But cool, that's where we can interview... switch gears.